We've talked a little bit about Vuex
modules and how they can be really useful.
How to namespace them to make sure that
not just the state is modularized, but
our actions, mutations, and
getters are also equally modularized.
But let's move on to talking
a little bit further and
deepening our knowledge of Vuex modules.
So far, we've talked about static modules,
and that might not make a lot of sense,
but I think in this exercise,
I'll show you what I mean by that.
And I'll introduce this
part by talking about it,
with regards to static
versus dynamic modules.
And we'll think about those two as
separate but sort of related and
similar entities.
>> Within application that didn't
probably definitely benefit from modules,
within its store.
Do you know is there any
performance benefit for
modularizing the store in this way?
Does it help to process things through
the store, if it isn't modules?
>> Yeah, I'm not 100% sure
in terms of the performance
implications of modules
versus non-modules.
But I can speak to one thing
which is that if you use
modules in a static fashion,
you are instantiating and
using your modules for
across the application.
So, like even though a component might
not be using that particular module,
there's still sort of
a performance cost because anytime
you are accessing the store that
module namespaces available.
And so, I think the question
with regards to the performance
implications will become clear in this
section, if you can awesome cool.
In the previous section we
talked about Vuex modules and
why that can be really useful
specifically with namespacing and
making sure that your state, actions,
getters, and mutations are specific.
So, it doesn't pollute the global
Vuex namespace, that's really useful.
But I think the next concept will
be particularly interesting,
especially if you're
interested in performance and
understanding how exactly modules
can improve your applications.
And I'll introduce this
concept as a corollary.
So static versus dynamic modules, and
the difference between them will
become clear in just a second.
So, let's look at an example
once this concept books loads,
[LAUGH] of accessing a essentially
like servicing a machine.
So, we want to service
a machine multiple times, and
we want to access the number of
times in which we service it.
If this code samples doesn't work,
I will load it locally.
So, let's run the code
that I have locally.
So, I'm going to run some
code just to show you what
the example that I'm going to show is and
looks like.
[SOUND] Load,
there we go, all right?
So, here I have a counter.
So it's just essentially showing
me a number of machines.
So it's a list of multiple machines and
you might notice there's some
text that says service x times.
So, it shows you the number of times
the machine has been serviced and
in this particular case,
I care to know this information.
So, I wanna know how many times this
service button has been clicked or
how many times a machine
has been serviced.
So, let's just assume we're clicking
it and you can notice that the counter,
so the service number of times
is increasing as you go.
And if I look specifically in
my Vuedev tools under Vuex,
you will see that mutation happening
which is completing the service request.
And of course,
the state is updating appropriately, so
you'll notice I have to keep loading
it updates every single time.
So, this is fine and obviously,
I'm using one single state object.
So, we'll look at this,
I modularized it, it's great.
I even namespace it, so everything is
accessible on the machine namespace.
But the thing is,
every time I use this specific store,
it is copied across components.
So, every component is using
the same instance of the store.
And this is sort of problematic because
in the instance that I showed you,
if I service.
Let's say,
if I service the machine named Bender,
I don't want the machine called
Farnsworth to update because again,
this is specific to that machine itself.
I don't want other machines
to know that that happened,
even though I'm using a similar store.
Where is my code, yes.
So essentially, I want to make sure that
the store that I'm using is specific
not only to the module, but
specific to the component that I'm using.
And so, this is sort of what I mean when I
talk about static versus dynamic modules.
Because a static module,
which is what we've looked at so far,
is registered on initialization
across the component.
So, whichever component
accesses the store,
it has access to that specific store and
so it's not dynamically loaded.
So, any component can access
that store whenever the entire
application initializes.
The corollary to that is dynamic
modules and dynamic modules,
as the name is suggests,
is registered on component initialization.
So, only the component that uses
it will initialize that store and
if that component doesn't exist or
if you're in another component,
you cannot access that specific store.
So again, we're gonna look back at
the folder structure I talked about.
In this case, I have modules and then
I have within that my machine code and
then I have my store.js or
in my Vuex cli instance,
it's store/index.js, but
the example is the same.
So, I can look at the two side by side
just to see what we had before and
then see what we can move
towards to make it a bit better.
So, we have our store.js file,
import the specific modules
as you can see on the top.
That's what I want because the module code
isn't here anymore, it's sort of separate.
So, I import the specific module code.
I added to my Vuex store like such,
I can choose to create a constant and
added or add it directly,
whichever is better for you.
It's namespaced as you can see here,
so this is what the module looks like.
This is what it looks like
when you add it to the store.
What I want to do is, I don't actually
want to add the module in the store
anymore, because the issue with adding
a module in the store is that anytime
anyone accesses that particular store,
that module exists.
And this is a problem because if a
component is using or multiple components
is using the same store, I don't want
them to access this specific store.
Because as you saw in the previous
example, if I service one machine,
it shouldn't service another machine.
So, what we'll do is we'll
pull away those pieces.
We won't actually put the module
code in the store anymore.
So, we're not gonna use it statically so
to speak, the module itself won't change.
Nothing's changing there.
The only thing that changes
here is the store and
how exactly you were
accessing the module itself.
So, this is where we're registering,
we're moving the part in which we
register the component of the module.
We're moving it away from the main.js
file into the actual component instance.
So, this is what you see if you
see the script component of your
single file component in view and within
that, we're going to register a module.
So let's assume this as a component,
let's say it's a vending machine item or
one of those specific list items.
And within that list item in the created
portion, we don't really care about
mounted because mounted is when
something is visible versus created,
which is on initialization of a component.
So, that's if you want to know
the difference between that,
that's the difference.
So, I created is useful because it's
when the component first is initialized.
I want to register that module.
And so, in order to do this,
I can call this.registerStoreModule
with the moduleName and
then pass in the specific module.
And of course, this is not this part
on the top which is the created part,
is a method that I'm creating on my own.
So below, you'll see a method
called registerStoreModule,
which is what I'm calling.
It takes in a module name and
the specific store module and
then it does some things which
is actually registering it.
So, you might notice on the below part
of the code this store.registerModule,
so that is Vue specific.
And that is something that I didn't write,
it's accessible on the store.
So, the Vue store has a method
called registerModule and
registerModule has the ability for
you to take in a module name and
a store module and
register it, so to speak.
If you think about it,
this looks uncannily similar to the method
that I just created call
registerStoremodule.
The difference here is that
I'm checking that a specific
module exists to begin with.
So, I wanna make sure that the store
exists, that there is a state, and so on.
So, it's some extra code I added,
but if you really wanted to,
you could just do store.registerModule and
that should work just fine.
And of course, it's this.$store,
I just renamed it to store because
I don't like writing this $store.
But the idea is the same,
this.$store.registerModule,
passing the module name,
passing the store module and
that will register a module
in the component itself.
So, with that I can now
use the module as named.
So, let's assume I have, state and
actions that I'm accessing in a component,
the state is called,
let's say I'm accessing the time service.
So, the number of times in which
a machine was serviced, and then I
also have an action call like service
machine, which is the button click.
So anytime you click it, it services or
it increments the time service.
So, I can access it with my Vuex helpers.
I personally like Vuex helpers.
So throughout this workshop,
I might throw it in here and
there because I prefer that.
And so, here I'm using map state,
which accesses the specific name
of the module which is machine.
And then, similarly with map actions,
it specifically acts as a machine and
then within that, I'm pulling apart or
pulling out the state and
the action that I'm using.
So, I can actually create the specific
module in the component and
then use it quite easily without it
having to live in the main.js file.